# Thesis structure


## Abstract

Write approximately 1/2 - 3/4 page that summarises your work in a way that is understandable to someone working in language technology. What? Why? How? Results. Conclusions. Significance for the field. What do we know now that we haven't known before.



## Introduction

A top down description of the problem that will attract the reader and give them a general outlines of questions and themes that will be discussed.

What is the problem and why is it relevant and how are you going to solve it? These should only be described on a general level. Finish by listing steps that will be taken to address these issues and a description of how this thesis is organised (In Chapter 2 we...)

If this were a play or a film, this would be Prelude or Overture, a general glimpse of ideas that we can expect if we continue watching.



## Background and previous work

Give the background about the problem you are trying to solve. 

You do this by gradually focusing on the questions you are going to investigate. First describe in detail what the problem is, frequently this is some linguistic aspect that we want to solve with language technology but it could also be a resource that is missing and you are going to build. Give some examples that the system should be able to solve.

Follow by describing the previous work that has addressed this problem, its findings but also its shortcomings or open questions that lead to subsequent work, ending with the work that this thesis most closely relates to. Summarise what question have been answered by different previous approaches and what questions are outstanding. It is these that we will address in this thesis. At the end you can state your research questions.

If this were a play or a film, in this act (Act I, Exposition) we meet the main protagonists of the plot and see what (complicated) relations exist between them but also their challenges and a hint of possibilities what could happen next. It is these that will drive the further plot.



## Materials and methods

Describe your toolkit and tools that you will use to test and answer these questions. 

The tools will be datasets, code, or system that you will use. If these are already existing, describe them here. If you are creating new resources and tools, describe what you are creating and how.

Once you identify research questions and tools you can define your hypotheses and experiments that will be used to test them. These should be very clearly defined. Hypotheses are expectations of answers to our research questions from introduction and a method is a description of how these hypotheses will be tested and evaluated.

Here you should also describe ethical considerations related to the dataset(s) and system(s) that you are using as well as the ethical considerations related to your proposed methodology. What measures have you taken to over them?

If this were a play, in this act (Act II, Rising action) involves some inciting moment and a complication. Something has happened (the problem to address) and the protagonists have to commit (different solutions) but there is a complication as none of these solutions are fitting and several open questions and difficulties and ethical questions face our protagonists. The protagonists have to make a decision and commit - but what will be the consequences? End of Act II.



## Results

What did you find out? 

Sections should correspond to the experiments that you planned in the previous chapter for each research question. Hence, the same structure is preserved through the chapters. For each section, first show the data from the experiment and then draw conclusions of the data and state how they support your previous hypotheses/predictions. Have hypotheses been confirmed or rejected? The conclusions are your results.

Support your argument graphically with figures and tables. It should be possible to read figures and tables without the text and understand the text without looking at figures and tables. This means that you should describe what the figure do in the caption. Hence, a caption such as "The F-score" is not a good caption. Refer to each figure or table at least once in the text. 

If there are a lot of Figures and Tables they can be put in the appendix. However, material in the appendix should be considered as supplementary material providing extra material in the sense that the examiner does not need to refer to it to understand the text or evaluate the thesis. For example, this would be charts showing in more detail the numbers in tables reported in the main text. It could be additional examples (to the ones reported in the main text) generated by the system that can be evaluated qualitatively by an interested reader.

If this were a play, this would be Act III, Climax. Something has happened - it's the fact - and there is no way back.



## Discussion

In this chapter you discuss your results in relation to the open research questions from the introduction. Preserve the same structure of the chapters with sections corresponding to experiments/results/research questions.

What do your results show and to what extent do your results answer your research question? What we have learned that we did not know at the beginning? 

What are the limitations of your findings - the scope to which the answers to research questions have provided a solution the problem outlined at the beginning? There may be part of the problem that your experiments have not solved.

What are the ethical considerations of using these results in practical applications?

If this were a play, this would be Act IV: Falling action. There is a reversal, actions following the climax have played out and the protagonists face and interpret the consequences (Reversal). This is leading to the final suspense. What do the results of study mean for the research are in general?



## Conclusions and further work

Summarise what has been done in the preceding chapters (again following the same structure of research question/experiment/results) and what what do these findings mean for furthering research in this area. 

What are the limitations of your study? What could be done differently (in relation to the new knowledge gained by the study)?

Where should we go next? What new questions has the study opened? What questions have not been addressed in this study?

If this were a play, this would be Act V: Resolution. What can we draw from the experiences of characters and the decisions they were making? How does this impact us?



## Other relevant documents

  - [Thesis grading criteria](thesis-examination-criteria-draft-2019-12-05.ods)



2023-04-20
